- Today on Buzzfeed
Unsolved we're covering
the mysterious deaths of Tupac Shakur
and Biggie Smalls, starting with Tupac.
Right now we're on our way to Las Vegas
and eventually Los Angeles to cover
some of the spots where
this all went down.
As always, I'm Ryan, that's Brent,
and we brought along our friend Daysha
because it felt wrong to
cover Biggie and Tupac
without bringing a true superfan.
I'm more of a Tupac fan,
but you know, Biggie's cool.
- Irrelevant.
- You're irrelevant.
- Anyway, let's get into it.
- On September 7th 1996 at the MGM
Grand Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada,
Tupac Shakur attended a
Mike Tyson boxing match.
After the match, Tupac
left with Suge Knight,
who at the time was
C.E.O. of the west coast
record label Death Row Records,
the label that Tupac was signed to.
However, on their way out,
Tupac and his bodyguards
got into a fight with Orlando Anderson
in the lobby of the MGM Casino.
- [Brent] In the lobby?
- [Ryan] In the lobby of the MGM.
Orlando Anderson was a member of the
Compton-based Southside Crips gang.
After the brawl, Suge
Knight and Tupac left
in Knight's car with Tupac's entourage
following in cars behind them.
While stopped at a traffic
light at the intersection
of Flamingo and Koval, a white Cadillac
pulled up on the passenger
side of Knight's car
and shot out of the window,
hitting Tupac four times
and grazing Knight in the
head with a bullet fragment.
In 2014, 18 years after the shooting,
Chris Carroll, a now retired
Las Vegas Police Department
sergeant came forward to say
he was first at the scene.
- According to Carroll,
when he opened the car door,
Tupac fell out of the
car covered in blood,
and Carroll asked, quote, "Who shot you?"
and states that Tupac
took a breath to respond
and said, quote, "Fuck you"
before slipping into unconsciousness,
making those Tupac's last words.
- [Daysha] Since we're
right here, there's no way.
- [Brent] What time is it right now?
- 11:56.
- [Ryan] Look how many
cars right now at 11:56.
On a Friday that's not nearly
as busy as a Tyson fight.
- There's no way, if I
heard those gunshots,
it would just be like, hmm.
- [Ryan] You'd look where it was, right?
- Yeah.
- [Ryan] Tupac was taken to the university
medical center and placed on life support
in a medically induced coma.
And on September 13th 1996,
six days after the shooting,
Tupac died due to his
injuries at the age of 25.
- [Brent] Whoa, 25?
I didn't realize he died so young.
- [Daysha] Both of 'em died super young.
- [Ryan] Yeah, he died at
25, Biggie Smalls died at 24.
- [Daysha] I think that's what
was so heartbreaking about it
is that they were these two
young black males on the rise,
and they just got snatched up.
- This is where it happened,
this is where he died.
One strange fact is that
the Las Vegas police
never arrested anyone in
connection with the murder.
They also failed to follow
up with Yaki Kadafi,
a member of Tupac's
entourage who was there
that evening who claimed he
could identify the assailant.
However, Kadafi was
unfortunately murdered two months
later on November 10th 1996
before he could be interviewed.
- [Brent] Wow.
- [Ryan] A Las Vegas homicide
detective who oversaw the case
claimed it got "the same treatment
"as any other homicide here."
- [Ryan] All right, let's get
to some of the main theories.
The first theory is from
former LA Times journalist
Chuck Phillips, who believes
that Orlando Anderson,
the Crips gang, and none other than
Biggie Smalls are
responsible for the murder.
Chuck Phillips and the LA
Times investigated the murder
over the course of a year and came up with
the following conclusions
based on anonymous sources.
Conclusion one, members
of the Southside Crips
were involved in the
shooting as retaliation
for Tupac's beating of Orlando Anderson.
Conclusion two, Orlando
Anderson was the shooter.
Conclusion three, Biggie
Smalls paid $1 million
for the murder of Tupac
and supplied the gun.
Speaking of Biggie, let's
go over his potential
motive for wanting Tupac dead.
Biggie's year-long feud with
Tupac was well known and
at the forefront of the east
coast, west coast rap rivalry
including a reported verbal
altercation and diss tracks.
In one track titled Hit
'Em Up, Tupac claimed
he had slept with Biggie's
wife, Faith Evans.
- How does that one go?
Is that ♫Hit 'em up, hit 'em up ♫
or is that a different one?
(Daysha laughing)
I'm actually curious.
- I think you should
just never do that again.
- No no no.
- [Ryan] Strangely, according to Phillips,
neither Biggie nor anyone connected
to Biggie was questioned by the police.
As for Orlando Anderson,
the believed shooter,
he was shot to death in May 1998.
Up until his death, Anderson denied
responsibility for Tupac's
death and was never charged.
The second theory is from former LAPD
detective Russell Poole, who believes
that Suge Knight set up the murder.
Despite Suge Knight also
being hit in the shooting,
detective Poole believed
Suge Knight had motives.
Motive one, Suge Knight
apparently owed Tupac
a lot of money, by some
accounts $3 million,
a theory corroborated by
the fact that Afeni Shakur,
Tupac's mother, sued Death
Row and Knight in 1997
for mishandling funds and taking
millions of dollars away from Tupac.
Motive two, Tupac intended to leave
Death Row Records, Suge Knight's label.
Tupac had recently fired
his lawyer David Kenner,
who, in addition to being
Suge Knight's lawyer,
also wrote up Tupac's agreement
with Death Row Records.
And sure enough, a week after the firing,
Suge Knight invited Tupac
to the fateful boxing match.
Here's some other things that
don't look good for Suge Knight.
Shortly after their
brawl in the MGM lobby,
Knight stopped to make a phone call
while everyone else was fleeing the scene.
Knight also insisted
that Tupac ride with him
in his car after the boxing match.
- [Ryan] Orlando Anderson,
the man who Tupac fought with
in MGM also contradicted
his initial testimony,
at first saying Knight
was part of the MGM brawl,
but then later saying that
Knight was trying to break up
the fight, stating, "I seen
him pulling people off of me."
Many people believe this turnaround
happened because of a payoff by Knight.
Detective Poole also claims
the bullet wound Knight says
he received that night was
never verified by the hospital,
the police, or any other witnesses.
This contradicts the 2014
report from former Las Vegas
police sergeant Chris
Carroll, who stated that
Knight's head was "gushing
blood" and that he had
"clearly been hit in the head."
Carroll also mentioned that
Knight showed legitimate concern
and that "it wasn't acting."
"This is not the guy who had
him killed, it's ridiculous."
- [Ryan] The third theory
is from LAPD detective
Greg Kading, who believes that Sean Combs,
a.k.a. P. Diddy or Puff Daddy
and C.E.O. of the east coast
record label Bad Boy Records
orchestrated Tupac's death.
Detective Kading got a Crips
gang member named Keith Davis
to confess on tape that P.
Diddy paid him $1 million
to carry out the murder
of Tupac and Suge Knight.
Keith Davis confessed
that Orlando Anderson,
who was Davis' nephew, was the
one who pulled the trigger,
and Davis also admits to being in the car
when he recounts the
night that Tupac was shot.
Keith Davis claims the
motive behind P. Diddy's hit
was due to fear that Suge
Knight would strike first,
and that Tupac was only
included in the hit because
P. Diddy was pissed off about
Tupac's song Hit 'Em Up.
Furthermore, before Tupac was killed,
he was shot multiple times
on November 30th 1994
at Quad Recording
Studios in New York City.
Tupac repeatedly stated
that he suspected people
associated with P. Diddy
were the perpetrators,
a suspicion corroborated
by a 2011 confession
from Dexter Isaac, who
claimed he was hired
by a P. Diddy associate
to rob Tupac that night.
However, P. Diddy has denied
involvement in the murder, stating,
And for what it's worth,
Keith Davis was reportedly
looking at 25 years to
life due to unrelated
activities if he didn't
reveal his secrets.
- [Ryan] The next theory is
that the Jewish Defense League,
The next theory is that
the Jewish Defense League,
and extremist pro-Israel
group, killed Tupac.
The FBI had files of alleged
death threats on Tupac
from the Jewish Defense League,
which has been classified
as a terrorist group by the FBI.
Other than that, there's
really not much to see here.
The last theory I'm gonna
go over is pretty silly.
Some believe that Tupac is in fact
still alive and faked his own death.
In 2015, some news outlets
reported that a man
named David Myers claimed he
helped Tupac fake his death
and that Suge Knight, among
others, helped as well.
However, this story seems
to have originated from
a fake news site, so take it
with an enormous grain of salt.
Some believe Tupac is
alive and well in Cuba.
It seems clear to me why it's unsolved.
There's a lot of holes,
there's a lot of eyewitness
and a lot of people who aren't talking.
- [Daysha] Who would have enough power
to get all of these people
to not say anything?
- [Ryan] Who killed Tupac?
That'll do it for today.
We're gonna stay the night in Vegas,
and we'll pick it back up
tomorrow when we're gonna
drive to Los Angeles and discuss
the death of Biggie Smalls.
So, see you then.
- Cheers.
(dissonant music)
- I've lost $14.
- I won three bucks!
- Fuck.
Fuck!